I mentioned this before, but
there's a whole lot of very detailed
nuance to the performance of
big single page applications.
The performance of JavaScript and how
it runs, how well it's gonna render and
interact with the DOM.
Memory utilization, looping,
all kinds of things like that.
And there's a fantastic course that's
in the catalog today from Steve.
All about that, that if you're
building that kind of application,
this course was a good jumping off point.
But now take a deep dive into
the performance of JavaScript.
Related to that, there's another
course about Webpack specifically.
If you're gonna be building an app
with obnoxious amounts of JavaScript,
you're probably going to need build and
bundling tools.
You probably want to send all of that
JavaScript down to the client all at once.
You'll probably wanna break it up into
smaller bits, and deliver those quickly.
Well, this course will teach you all about
how to do that, how to think about that.
And how to deliver the most performant
experience you can while still delivering
obnoxious amounts of JavaScript.
I encourage you to go
look at both of those.
This kind of wraps up part three,
which as I said, the shortest parts.
We talked about performance culture.
How to work and
interpret your data with non tech folks,
springing back into their business terms.
And thinking about what
you would need to plan for
when designing a new application or
dealing with scenarios.
Just gonna briefly kind of recap
what we talked about today, and
then I'm gonna open it up for questions.
So we did three parts today,
we started with understanding,
looked at improving and planning.
In understanding we talked a lot
about psychology of waiting,
and I came back to this over and
over again cuz it's super valuable and
important to think about this.
There's going to be waits
in your application,
you're not gonna deliver
everything instantly.
And so when you need to introduce
a weight, make sure that you're doing so
in a way that people won't feel would
exaggerate it to be slower than it
actually is.
We looked at web vitals and what they're
measuring in the overall loading process.
The first contentful paint,
the largest contentful paint,
the commutative layout shift,
and the first input delay.
And we talked about signal to noise,
measuring lab data versus field data, and
what each kind of tells
us about our performance.
Then we dug into improving the core
rule that applies in all things.
Performance is find
a way to do less things.
If you can find a way to do fewer things,
you will go faster because
there's just fewer things to do.
A lot of that is finding fewer
ways to get between two goalposts.
If I want to get to largest contentful
paint sooner, the way I'm going to do that
is by removing a bunch of stuff that I
don't need in order to hit that goalpost.
So we can crunch that down and
focus on what's important.
And overall, we applied a bunch of fixes
to drop the performance of our example
page quite a bit.
And in planning, which we just talked
about, a big emphasis I wanna make is on
having data cuz if you don't have data,
you can't decide what to work on.
You can't decide when you
have enough performance.
And you can't justify a performance false
to actually fix it with the business.
When you're thinking about performance,
you gotta set your goals.
Be sure you're thinking about who
your users are, what they do,
how long would they wait,
and how do you impress them.
If you don't know what these things are,
you're never going to have
a fast website for them.
So this was improving web performance.
I hope you had a good time.
If you ever have questions for
me, you wanna reach out.
You can either hit me up on Twitter,
I'm @ToddHGardner.
Or you can email me directly,
I'm Todd@requestmetrics.com.
Happy to answer any questions I can.
Thank you so much for joining me.